the Palestinian militant group Hamas has
fired a barrage of longrange rockets
from Gaza at Israel for the first time
since January the Israeli military said
at least eight Rockets were fired from
the southern Gaza City of Rafa where
Israeli forces recently launched an
incursion the Army intercepted a number
of projectiles Israel's war against
Hamas is now in its eight months
following the October 7th Terror
attacks air raid siren rang out in Tel
Aviv sending people running down into
bomb shelters until the danger
passed the Salvo of rockets fired from
Gaza left debris outside of a
school and damaged a house in Hara to
the north of Tel
Aviv no casualties were reported in the
attack but residents here say they're
lucky to be alive
mother was sitting in the living room
and the caregiver went to another room
to get a drink suddenly there was a bang
in the caregiver's room and she fell
from the blast the whole room was
damaged we took the caregiver to the
hospital to take a series of tests and
mother miraculously
survived a Hamas spokesperson said the
barrage was a response to high civilian
deaths at the hands of of Israel's
military in Rafa civil defense workers
pulled at least six bodies out of the
rubble of a house destroyed in an
Israeli air strike despite an order from
the international court of justice to
stop its offensive in the southern Gaza
City Israel says it will continue until
it destroys Hamas battalions
[Music]
there many of the displaced Palestinians
who ended up here say they refuse to
relocate
again I have made the decision to stay
here I have my own
tent I've been told to make my own oven
and start a business baking
bread we will never leave we started our
own oven business and God willing we
will
resist amid the violence and suffering
in the Gaza Strip living another day and
baking bread is an act of
defiance and vital humanitarian Aid has
begun entering the gasa strip via the km
Shalom crossing a few kilometers from
Rafa the assistance is from Egypt but
can't cross directly from there due to
Kyra's refusal to coordinate Aid through
the rougher Crossing until control of
the gasan side is handed back to
Palestinians kamam Shalom connects their
Gaza Strip directly with Israel the
change comes after a deal between the
Egyptian and US presidents Egyptian
media say a total of 208 trucks are
expected to cross into Gaza today but un
agencies say ongoing fighting in
southern Gaza usually makes it too
dangerous to retrieve the
aid deep malam Mala is the chief
humanitarian officer of the eight
organization care I asked her about the
challenges the charity faces in Gaza and
the 200 trucks that were allowed to end
into
today I mean absolutely the ongoing
military offensive in and around Rafa
since sixth of May compounded by cutting
off and blocking what was the lifeline
of delivering humanitarian Aid the Rafa
Crossing this combination has severely
impacted and affected our ability as Aid
agencies to distribute life-saving
assistance to people who are on the
brink today it's a welcome sign it is
encouraging that trucks are starting to
enter Karim Shalom 200 200 were
manifested to enter today as far as we
know 126 only 126 have entered today
because it's up until 5:00 p.m. that the
trucks can enter and the process the
bureaucracy loading unloading it takes a
whole lot of time so 126 have come and
for the remaining we are not yet sure
will they come tomorrow or have they
been sent back but as you said this is
only the trucks entering the ability to
uplift the cargo on the Palestinian side
is hugely restricted and our ability to
distribute Aid is also limited by The
Continuous bombardment and several
impediments that we have Yeah you
mentioned that I mean there's this
ongoing fighting especially in southern
Gaza I should imagine that it's very
difficult for uh uh your co-workers as
well to provide Aid uh what are you
hearing from the ground
there what we are hearing is in since in
the last six or seven months every day
every single day I thought it cannot get
worse and I have been wrong every single
day so at this point let me start by
saying the aid workers themselves are
affected so you know people Aid workers
the Distributors they are themselves
trying to save themselves their families
moving around continuously being
displaced and then there's total kios in
many places there have been situation
where aid supplies have been looted
where AID work workers have been
attacked killed the number of Aid
workers killed in this crisis is not
something that we have seen before and
then there is lot of rubble the physical
land access is also very very restricted
and then the bombardment the military
offensive the attacks that also impedes
so it is quite chaotic at the moment but
the aid workers are doing their best and
I believe I'm certain that much more can
be done if there is Assurance of
protecting Aid workers and letting more
trucks in we are very encouraged by 200
trucks being allowed in however before
October there were 500 trucks coming in
every single day 500 and in all these uh
six seven months the needs have only
escalated so much much more is needed
and Aid workers need to be alive to
deliver aid for a start uh physical
access to reach the affected communities
also needs to be improvised
in order for us to be able to save lives
right so 200 trucks is a start 500 was
better and a lot of people also say 600
drugs a day that's what it uh takes uh
let's hope we get there Dr deep Mala
Mala chief humanarian officer at K thank
you so much for your
time thanks for having me